---
layout: post
title: How to build a website with your client ?
---

Building a website for a client is offering your skills as a designer / developer for somebody (the client) who does not have
these skills. People wanting a website might have specific ideas in mind and often shop around for obtaining the best price. 
How can the best product be delivered for the client against a fair price ?

It all starts with listening to the client. Every project is unique and it is important to know what the client exactly wants.
Based on this first step, you can examine the scope for technical feasability and price. By listing up all the requirements,
you know as a developer the level of dificulty and amount of time it would take for completing the job. A fair price calculation
is based on your hourly rate multiplied by the amound of hours of work. 

The next step is to discuss the examined scope with your client. He might have questions about certain topics or might find 
the total price too expensive. This often is the case when certain features are required. The scope negotation involves 
adapting the features which will change the total price. When the scope is determined, it is important to set milestones. This 
gives the client a good overview of what to expect by when. I personally find this important as creating a website / software is
a creative process. 

How to maintain a good relationship with your client ? The client is paying a developer to complete the work while the developer 
also needs input from the client. This can be a logo, copy writing, etc. Because of this, it is important also to keep the 
client accountable for sending the proper input on time. An example is that the project will take a certain amount of time
from the moment the necessary input is received. You want to deliver a good product which the client wants to us. This motivates
the client for sending the input for continuing on time. 

How do you keep your client involved ? When a project takes a bit longer, it is important to keep your client involved for
collecting feedback of your work and to make him excited for the future delivered work. Otherwise, the client might wonder what
you are up to when there is no in-between-communication. Showing work completed can be shown when a certain part is completed 
based on the milestones set. 

Do you have thoughts on this topic ? Feel free to contact me.
